Update README to match pgai docs (#7464)
timescale/timescaledb: README.md

[![SLACK](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ask_the_Timescale_community-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=slack&logoColor=white)](https://timescaledb.slack.com/archives/C4GT3N90X)
[![Try TimescaleDB for free](https://img.shields.io/badge/Try_Timescale_for_free-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=timescale&logoColor=white)](https://console.cloud.timescale.com/signup)

</div>

TimescaleDB scales PostgreSQL for time-series data with the help of [hypertables](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/hypertables/about-hypertables/). Hypertables are PostgreSQL tables that automatically partition your data by time and space. You interact with a hypertable in the same way as regular PostgreSQL table. Behind the scenes, the database performs the work of setting up and maintaining the hypertable's partitions.

From the perspective of both use and management, TimescaleDB looks and feels like PostgreSQL, and can be managed and queried as
such. However, it provides a range of features and optimizations that make managing your time-series data easier and more efficient.

> | **Get started with TimescaleDB** |**Learn more about TimescaleDB**|

Reviewer: aesthetics nit: can we turn this into two lists without a table putting them side-by-side? I appreciate the effort to wrap it, tables in MD are hard to wrestle and vertical alignment is off. Having the lists below each other with the headers is also better for SEO.

Reviewer 2: Hi @philkra , the idea behind this table is that when people read the page they see the things they can do, and the first major action (Install), https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/bfe181d5444e9c4a1cf3fd3ce5ea54beccfcc01f/README.md (Yes, we need to sort out the links).  If you put one list after another then you see two lists.  Your call.

> | **Get started with TimescaleDB** |**Learn more about TimescaleDB**|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> |---|--|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | <ul><li>[Install](#install-timescaledb)</li><li>[Create a hypertable](#create-a-hypertable)</li><li>[Insert and query data](#insert-and-query-data)</li><li>[Compress data](#compress-data)</li><li>[Create time buckets](#create-time-buckets)</li><li>[Create continuous aggregates](#create-continuous-aggregates)</li><li>[Back up and replicate data](#back-up-replicate-and-restore-data)</li></ul> | <ul><li>[Developer documentation](https://docs.timescale.com/)</li><li>[Release notes](https://tsdb.co/GitHubTimescaleDocsReleaseNotes)</li><li>[Testing TimescaleDB](test/README.md)</li><li>[Timescale community forum](https://www.timescale.com/forum/)</li><li>[GitHub issues](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/issues)</li><li>[Timescale support](https://tsdb.co/GitHubTimescaleSupport)</li></ul>|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get started with TimescaleDB
* [Install](#install-timescaledb)
* [Create a hypertable](#create-a-hypertable)
* [Insert and query data](#insert-and-query-data)
* [Compress data](#compress-data)
* Create time buckets](#create-time-buckets)
* [Create continuous aggregates](#create-continuous-aggregates)
* [Back up and replicate data](#back-up-replicate-and-restore-data)

## Learn more about TimescaleDB
* [Developer documentation](https://docs.timescale.com/)
* [Release notes](https://tsdb.co/GitHubTimescaleDocsReleaseNotes)
* [Testing TimescaleDB](test/README.md)
* [Timescale community forum](https://www.timescale.com/forum/)
* [Timescale support](https://tsdb.co/GitHubTimescaleSupport)
```

Reviewer 2: Hi @philkra , the idea behind this table is that when people read the page they see the things they can do, and the first major action (Install), https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/bfe181d5444e9c4a1cf3fd3ce5ea54beccfcc01f/README.md (Yes, we need to sort out the links). If you put one list after another then you see two lists. Your call.

Reviewer: Thanks @billy-the-fish for the context, the idea resonates with me. I'm on the fence, let's go with the table. We can adjust if necessary

> # Install TimescaleDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Install TimescaleDB
```

These minor versions [introduced a breaking binary interface change][postgres-breaking-change] that,
once identified, was reverted in subsequent minor PostgreSQL versions 17.2, 16.6, 15.10, 14.15, 13.18, and 12.22.
When you build from source, best practice is to build with PostgreSQL 17.2, 16.6, etc and higher.
Users of [Timescale Cloud](https://console.cloud.timescale.com/) and Platform packages built and
distributed by Timescale are unaffected.

TimescaleDB comes in the following editions: Apache 2 and Community. See the [documentation](https://docs.timescale.com/about/latest/timescaledb-editions/) for differences between them.

For reference and clarity, all code files in this repository reference [licensing](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/main/tsl/LICENSE-TIMESCALE) in their header. Apache-2 licensed binaries can be built by passing `-DAPACHE_ONLY=1` to `bootstrap`.

PostgreSQL's out-of-the-box settings are typically too conservative for modern
servers and TimescaleDB. Make sure your `postgresql.conf`
settings are tuned, by either using [timescaledb-tune](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-tune)
or doing it manually.

> # Create a hypertable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a hypertable
```

Please use a `##`, a `#` translates to a `<h1>` and only of those should be present for SEO purposes.

- [About compression](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/compression/)
- [API reference](https://docs.timescale.com/api/latest/compression/)

# Create time buckets

Time buckets enable you to aggregate data in hypertables by time interval and calculate summary values.

For example, calculate the average daily temperature in a table named `weather_conditions`. The table has a `time` and `temperature` columns:

```sql
SELECT time_bucket('1 day', time) AS bucket,
  avg(temperature) AS avg_temp
FROM weather_conditions
GROUP BY bucket
ORDER BY bucket ASC;
```

See more:

- [About time buckets](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/time-buckets/about-time-buckets/)
- [API reference](https://docs.timescale.com/api/latest/hyperfunctions/time_bucket/)
- [All TimescaleDB features](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/)
- [Tutorials](https://docs.timescale.com/tutorials/latest/)

> # Create continuous aggregates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create continuous aggregates
```

Continuous aggregates are designed to make queries on very large datasets run faster. They use PostgreSQL [materialized views](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-materializedviews.html) to continuously and incrementally refresh a query in the background, so that when you run the query, only the data that has changed needs to be computed, not the entire dataset.

See more:

- [About continuous aggregates](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/continuous-aggregates/)
- [API reference](https://docs.timescale.com/api/latest/continuous-aggregates/create_materialized_view/)

> # Back up, replicate, and restore data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Back up, replicate, and restore data
```

TimescaleDB takes advantage of the reliable backup, restore, and replication functionality provided by PostgreSQL.

See more:

- [Backup and restore](https://docs.timescale.com/self-hosted/latest/backup-and-restore/)
- [Replication and high availability](https://docs.timescale.com/self-hosted/latest/replication-and-ha/)

> # Want TimescaleDB hosted and managed for you? Try Timescale Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Want TimescaleDB hosted and managed for you? Try Timescale Cloud
```

> # Get involved

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get involved
```

We welcome contributions to TimescaleDB! See [Contributing](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Code style guide](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/main/docs/StyleGuide.md) for details.

> # Learn about Timescale

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Learn about Timescale
```

    ```

1. Connect to a database:

    ```bash
    docker exec -it timescaledb psql -d "postgres://postgres:password@localhost/postgres"
    ```

See [other installation options](https://docs.timescale.com/self-hosted/latest/install/) or try [Timescale Cloud](https://docs.timescale.com/getting-started/latest/) for free.

## Create a hypertable

You create a regular table and then convert it into a hypertable. A hypertable automatically partitions data into chunks based on your configuration.

```sql
-- Create timescaledb extension
CREATE EXTENSION timescaledb;

-- Create a regular SQL table
CREATE TABLE conditions (
  time        TIMESTAMPTZ       NOT NULL,
  location    TEXT              NOT NULL,
  temperature DOUBLE PRECISION  NULL,
  humidity    DOUBLE PRECISION  NULL
);

-- Convert the table into a hypertable that is partitioned by time
SELECT create_hypertable('conditions', by_range('time'));
```

See more:

- [About hypertables](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/hypertables/)
- [API reference](https://docs.timescale.com/api/latest/hypertable/)

## Enable columnstore

> TimescaleDB's hypercore is a hybrid row-columnar store to boost analytical query performance on your time-series and event data while also reducing data size size by more than 90%. This keeps your queries operating at lightning speed and ensures low storage costs as you scale. Data is inserted in row format in the rowstore and converted to columnar format in the columnstore based on your configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TimescaleDB's hypercore is a hybrid row-columnar store that boosts analytical query performance on your time-series and event data, while reducing data size by more than 90%. This keeps your queries operating at lightning speed and ensures low storage costs as you scale. Data is inserted in row format in the rowstore and converted to columnar format in the columnstore based on your configuration.
```

        (NOW(), 'garage', 77.0, 65.2);
    ```

- Return the number of entries written to the table conditions in the last 12 hours:

    ```sql
    SELECT COUNT(*) FROM conditions
      WHERE time > NOW() - INTERVAL '12 hours';
    ```

See more:

- [Query data](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/query-data/)
- [Write data](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/write-data/)

## Compress data

You compress your time-series data to reduce its size by more than 90%. This cuts storage costs and keeps your queries operating at lightning speed.

When you enable compression, the data in your hypertable is compressed chunk by chunk. When the chunk is compressed, multiple records are grouped into a single row. The columns of this row hold an array-like structure that stores all the data. This means that instead of using lots of rows to store the data, it stores the same data in a single row. Because a single row takes up less disk space than many rows, it decreases the amount of disk space required, and can also speed up your queries. For example:

- Compress a specific hypertable chunk manually:

    ```sql
    SELECT compress_chunk( '<chunk_name>');

>     ```

Reviewer 3: What about a fully reproducible example... above we demonstrate how to create a hypertable, and now we can demonstrate how turn ON compression in the hypertable and how to compress chunks... Then every user can just copy and paste those code samples and will have it running and working :-)

Reviewer 3: Perfect!

> - Compress a specific hypertable chunk manually:
> 
>     ```sql
>     SELECT compress_chunk( '<chunk_name>');
>     ```
> 
> - Create a policy to compress chunks that are older than seven days automatically:
> 
>     ```sql
>     SELECT add_compression_policy('<hypertable_name>', INTERVAL '7 days');
>     ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Enable compression on hypertable
    ```sql
    ALTER TABLE conditions SET (
      timescaledb.compress,
      timescaledb.compress_segmentby = 'device_id'
    );
    ```
- Compress hypertable chunks manually:

    ```sql
    SELECT compress_chunk(chunk, if_not_compressed => true) FROM show_chunks( 'conditions', now()::timestamp - INTERVAL '1 week', now()::timestamp - INTERVAL '3 weeks' ) AS chunk;
    ```

- Create a policy to compress chunks that are older than seven days automatically:

    ```sql
    SELECT add_compression_policy('conditions', INTERVAL '7 days');
    ```
```

See more:

- [About compression](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/compression/)
- [API reference](https://docs.timescale.com/api/latest/compression/)

## Create time buckets

Time buckets enable you to aggregate data in hypertables by time interval and calculate summary values.

For example, calculate the average daily temperature in a table named `weather_conditions`. The table has a `time` and `temperature` columns:

```sql
SELECT time_bucket('1 day', time) AS bucket,
  avg(temperature) AS avg_temp

> FROM weather_conditions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
FROM conditions
```

<div align=center>
<picture align=center>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/timescale-logo-dark-mode.svg">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/timescale-logo-light-mode.svg">
    <img alt="Timescale logo" >
</picture>
</div>

<div align=center>

<h3>TimescaleDB is an extension for PostgreSQL that enables time-series, events, and real-time analytics workloads, while increasing ingest, query, and storage performance</h3>

[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/Read_the_Timescale_docs-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=readthedocs&logoColor=white)](https://docs.timescale.com/)
[![SLACK](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ask_the_Timescale_community-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=slack&logoColor=white)](https://timescaledb.slack.com/archives/C4GT3N90X)
[![Try TimescaleDB for free](https://img.shields.io/badge/Try_Timescale_for_free-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=timescale&logoColor=white)](https://console.cloud.timescale.com/signup)

> </div>

Reviewer 4: After that maybe show how to create a hypertable, enable the columnstore, load some data which is shown later. I think our goal should be to get people using the product as quickly as possible vs boring them with a lot content.

> </div>

Author: Done

For example, create a continuous aggregate view for daily weather data in two simple steps:

1. Create a materialized view:

   ```sql
   CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW conditions_summary_daily
   WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
   SELECT
     device,
     time_bucket(INTERVAL '1 day', time) AS bucket,
     AVG(temperature),
     MAX(temperature),
     MIN(temperature)
   FROM
     conditions
   GROUP BY
     device,
     bucket;
   ```

1. Create a policy to refresh the view every hour:

   ```sql
   SELECT
     add_continuous_aggregate_policy(
       'conditions_summary_daily',
       start_offset => INTERVAL '1 month',
       end_offset => INTERVAL '1 day',
       schedule_interval => INTERVAL '1 hour'
   );
   ```
See more:

- [About continuous aggregates](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/continuous-aggregates/)
- [API reference](https://docs.timescale.com/api/latest/continuous-aggregates/create_materialized_view/)

> ## Back up, replicate, and restore data

Reviewer 4: I don't think this is needed in the README. This is kind of advanced and should be covered in docs.

Author: removed

<div align=center>
<picture align=center>
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/timescale-logo-dark-mode.svg">
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/timescale-logo-light-mode.svg">
    <img alt="Timescale logo" >
</picture>
</div>

<div align=center>

<h3>TimescaleDB is an extension for PostgreSQL that enables time-series workloads while increasing ingest, query, storage, and analytics performance</h3>

[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/Read_the_Timescale_docs-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=readthedocs&logoColor=white)](https://docs.timescale.com/)
[![SLACK](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ask_the_Timescale_community-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=slack&logoColor=white)](https://timescaledb.slack.com/archives/C4GT3N90X)
[![Try TimescaleDB for free](https://img.shields.io/badge/Try_Timescale_for_free-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=timescale&logoColor=white)](https://console.cloud.timescale.com/signup)

> </div>

Reviewer 3: This file is Markdown so why add HTML???

Author: I am centering this section and making the images clickable - just like the template I am using for this: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/timescale/pgai/refs/heads/main/README.md

>  - **Users to Timescale's [k8s docker image](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-docker-ha) are unaffected**.  We are currently not building a new release against these latest minor PG releases. But regardless, our docker image build process recompiles TimescaleDB against each new minor Postgres version, which would prevent any such incompatibility.
>  - Users of other managed clouds (using TimescaleDB Apache-2 Edition) are recommended to not upgrade to these latest minor PG releases at this time, or discuss with their cloud provider how they build TimescaleDB with new minor releases.
>  - Users who self-manage TimescaleDB are recommended to not upgrade to these latest minor PG releases at this time.
>
>  We are working with the PG community about how best to address this issue.  See [this thread on pgsql-hackers](https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/flat/CABOikdNmVBC1LL6pY26dyxAS2f%2BgLZvTsNt%3D2XbcyG7WxXVBBQ%40mail.gmail.com) for more info.
>
>  Thanks for your understanding! 🙏

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a getting started section here, e.g.:

**Getting started with TimescaleDB**
* [Create a Hypertable](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/hypertables/create/)
* [Set up compression](https://docs.timescale.com/tutorials/latest/nyc-taxi-cab/compress-nyc/)
* [Create continuous aggregates](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/continuous-aggregates/create-a-continuous-aggregate/)

Author: Do you mean links pointing to sections underneath?

  The self-hosted TimescaleDB comes in the following editions: Apache 2 and Community. See the [documentation](https://docs.timescale.com/about/latest/timescaledb-editions/) for differences between the editions.

  For reference and clarity, all code files in this repository reference [licensing](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/main/tsl/LICENSE-TIMESCALE) in their header. Apache-2 licensed binaries can be built by passing `-DAPACHE_ONLY=1` to `bootstrap`.

  PostgreSQL's out-of-the-box settings are typically too conservative for modern
  servers and TimescaleDB. Make sure your `postgresql.conf`
  settings are tuned, by either using [timescaledb-tune](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-tune)
  or doing it manually.

# Create a hypertable

You create a regular table and then convert it into a hypertable.

```sql
-- Create timescaledb extension
CREATE EXTENSION timescaledb;

-- Create a regular SQL table
CREATE TABLE conditions (
  time        TIMESTAMPTZ       NOT NULL,
  location    TEXT              NOT NULL,
  temperature DOUBLE PRECISION  NULL,
  humidity    DOUBLE PRECISION  NULL
);

-- Convert the table into a hypertable that is partitioned by time

> SELECT create_hypertable('conditions', 'time');

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SELECT create_hypertable('conditions', by_range('time'));
```
Use the new API.

Continuous aggregates are designed to make queries on very large datasets run faster. They use PostgreSQL [materialized views](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-materializedviews.html) to continuously and incrementally refresh a query in the background, so that when you run the query, only the data that has changed needs to be computed, not the entire dataset.

See more:

- [About continuous aggregates](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/continuous-aggregates/)
- [API reference](https://docs.timescale.com/api/latest/continuous-aggregates/create_materialized_view/)

# Tier data

TimescaleDB tiered storage architecture includes a standard high-performance storage tier and a low-cost object storage tier. You can migrate rarely used data to the object storage to cut costs. Data is tiered on the level of chunks, that is, individual parts of tables. This means that a single table can be spread among storage tiers for ultimate cost optimization.

<img src="https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tiered-storage.png" alt="tiered-storage"/>

See more:

- [About tiered storage](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/data-tiering/)

> # Ensure high availability

Reviewer 3: IMHO this section should not be added since it is a cloud feature not an extension feature.

Reviewer: ++ to Fabrizio's comment. HA is not a feature shipped with the extension, we can remove it.

### Additional documentation

- [Why use TimescaleDB?](https://tsdb.co/GitHubTimescaleIntro)
- [Migrating from PostgreSQL](https://docs.timescale.com/migrate/latest/)
- [Writing data](https://tsdb.co/GitHubTimescaleWriteData)
- [Querying and data analytics](https://tsdb.co/GitHubTimescaleReadData)
- [Tutorials and sample data](https://tsdb.co/GitHubTimescaleTutorials)
# Get involved

### Community & help
We welcome contributions to TimescaleDB! See [Contributing](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Code style guide](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/main/docs/StyleGuide.md) for details.

- [Slack Channel](https://slack.timescale.com)
- [Github Issues](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/issues)

> - [Timescale Support](https://tsdb.co/GitHubTimescaleSupport): see support options (community & subscription)

Reviewer 3: Why remove those links???

# Learn about Timescale

### Releases & updates
Timescale is a PostgreSQL database company. To learn more, visit [timescale.com](https://www.timescale.com).

 - [Timescale Release Notes](https://tsdb.co/GitHubTimescaleDocsReleaseNotes): see detailed information about current and past
   versions and subscribe to get
   notified about new releases, fixes, and early access/beta programs.
Timescale Cloud is a high-performance, developer focused, cloud platform that provides PostgreSQL services
for the most demanding AI, time-series, analytics, and event workloads. Timescale Cloud is ideal for production applications and provides high availability, streaming backups, upgrades over time, roles and permissions, and great security.

### Contributing

- [Contributor instructions](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

> - [Code style guide](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/main/docs/StyleGuide.md)

Reviewer 3: Why remove it??

Author: These have moved but are still on the page

[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/Read_the_Timescale_docs-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=readthedocs&logoColor=white)](https://docs.timescale.com/)
[![SLACK](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ask_the_Timescale_community-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=slack&logoColor=white)](https://timescaledb.slack.com/archives/C4GT3N90X)
[![Try TimescaleDB for free](https://img.shields.io/badge/Try_Timescale_for_free-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=timescale&logoColor=white)](https://console.cloud.timescale.com/signup)

</div>

TimescaleDB scales PostgreSQL for time-series data with the help of [hypertables](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/hypertables/about-hypertables/). Hypertables are PostgreSQL tables that automatically partition your data by time and space. You interact with a hypertable in the same way as regular PostgreSQL table. Behind the scenes, the database performs the work of setting up and maintaining the hypertable's partitions.

From the perspective of both use and management, TimescaleDB looks and feels like PostgreSQL, and can be managed and queried as

> such. However, it provides a range of features and optimizations that make managing your time-series data easier and more efficient.

Reviewer 5: I think that the messaging is not 100% consistent with how we talk about Timescale(DB) on timescale.com

I would propose to quickly coordinate with marketing as well on the messaging as we are now expanding to more use cases than pure time series and we also start talking about Hypercore, our hybrid row-columnar engine. As an example from the website:

> Time series, events, and analytics
>
> For ingesting and querying vast amounts of live data. Our hybrid row-columnar engine makes queries up to 350x faster, ingests 44% faster and reduces storage by 95% over RDS.

Reviewer 5: Please note that I don't include other use cases that we have on TImescale Cloud (like RAG, search, and Al).. The additional events, and (real-time) analytics use cases are fully served by the TImescaleDB extension (this repo)

Reviewer 6: Hi @atovpeko , as Yannis has mentioned here , mostly content from https://www.timescale.com , is it possible to add that link as well somewhere in the README ? Possibly, with a normal title : `Timescale is Postgres made powerful` . 
Then, we won't need to replicate the info here.

Author: Hi @pallavisontakke There is a section called "About Timescale" at the bottom, with the tagline and the link to the website :-)

        (NOW(), 'basement', 66.5, 60.0),
        (NOW(), 'garage', 77.0, 65.2);
    ```

- Return the number of entries written to the table conditions in the last 12 hours:

    ```sql
    SELECT COUNT(*) FROM conditions
      WHERE time > NOW() - INTERVAL '12 hours';
    ```

See more:

- [Query data](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/query-data/)
- [Write data](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/write-data/)

# Time buckets

Time buckets enable you to aggregate data in hypertables by time interval and calculate summary values.

For example, calculate the average daily temperature in a table named `weather_conditions`. The table has a `time` and `temperature` columns:

```sql
SELECT time_bucket('1 day', time) AS bucket,
  avg(temperature) AS avg_temp
FROM weather_conditions
GROUP BY bucket
ORDER BY bucket ASC;
```

See more:

- [About time buckets](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/time-buckets/about-time-buckets/)
- [API reference](https://docs.timescale.com/api/latest/hyperfunctions/time_bucket/)
- [All TimescaleDB features](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/)
- [Tutorials](https://docs.timescale.com/tutorials/latest/)

> 

Author: I don't think Hypercore is released yet though? At least we don't have it in the docs.

> 

Reviewer 6: I can these 2 blogs we have mentioning hypercore : 
- https://www.timescale.com/blog/hypercore-a-hybrid-row-storage-engine-for-real-time-analytics/
- https://www.timescale.com/blog/making-postgres-faster/

If you feel, mentioning them anywhere near the compression section makes sense, then might be alright to add, I guess.

> 

Reviewer 2: I'd prefer to wait on the hypercore doc update before we add links.

# Continuous aggregates

> Continuous aggregates are designed to make queries on very large datasets run faster. They use PostgreSQL [materialized views](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-materializedviews.html) to continuously and incrementally refresh a query in the background, so that when you run the query, only the data that has changed needs to be computed, not the entire dataset.

Reviewer 3: Actually CAggs don't use Postgres Materialized Views... in fact CAggs is our MatView implementation with steroids (Incremental Refresh, Data Retention, Compression/Columnar Storage) ... but we can´t say that it is a Materialized View because users will expect to see it under MatView sections on their favourite client applications connected to the database but actually they will apear under the View sections cause we expose it to users as a Postgres View.

> Continuous aggregates are designed to make queries on very large datasets run faster. They use PostgreSQL [materialized views](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-materializedviews.html) to continuously and incrementally refresh a query in the background, so that when you run the query, only the data that has changed needs to be computed, not the entire dataset.

Author: Is there a good approved description anywhere that I could reuse?

> Continuous aggregates are designed to make queries on very large datasets run faster. They use PostgreSQL [materialized views](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-materializedviews.html) to continuously and incrementally refresh a query in the background, so that when you run the query, only the data that has changed needs to be computed, not the entire dataset.

Reviewer 6: How does this look ? 

`Continuous aggregates are designed to make queries on very large datasets run faster. They continuously and incrementally refresh a query in the background, so that when you run the query, only the data that has changed needs to be computed, not the entire dataset. Normal PostgreSQL [materialized views](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-materializedviews.html) cannot be incrementally materialized, they have to be rebuilt from scratch every time you want to refresh it. `

> Continuous aggregates are designed to make queries on very large datasets run faster. They use PostgreSQL [materialized views](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-materializedviews.html) to continuously and incrementally refresh a query in the background, so that when you run the query, only the data that has changed needs to be computed, not the entire dataset.

Author: Added with a minor tweak, thank you

See more:

- [About continuous aggregates](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/continuous-aggregates/)
- [API reference](https://docs.timescale.com/api/latest/continuous-aggregates/create_materialized_view/)

# Tiered storage

> TimescaleDB tiered storage architecture includes a standard high-performance storage tier and a low-cost object storage tier. You can migrate rarely used data to the object storage to cut costs. Data is tiered on the level of chunks, that is, individual parts of tables. This means that a single table can be spread among storage tiers for ultimate cost optimization.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to replace these sections with one on Cloud features as an upsell? For example, the text in https://docs.timescale.com/getting-started/latest/? (You have to refresh to see the latest content)

> TimescaleDB tiered storage architecture includes a standard high-performance storage tier and a low-cost object storage tier. You can migrate rarely used data to the object storage to cut costs. Data is tiered on the level of chunks, that is, individual parts of tables. This means that a single table can be spread among storage tiers for ultimate cost optimization.

Reviewer 3: IMHO here we should focus **only** on features available in the extension. Cloud features should not be mentioned here to don't make community users confused.

> TimescaleDB tiered storage architecture includes a standard high-performance storage tier and a low-cost object storage tier. You can migrate rarely used data to the object storage to cut costs. Data is tiered on the level of chunks, that is, individual parts of tables. This means that a single table can be spread among storage tiers for ultimate cost optimization.

Reviewer: A getting started section is the more valuable. Left a comment with an example above.

## Get involved

We welcome contributions to TimescaleDB! See [Contributing](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Code style guide](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/blob/main/docs/StyleGuide.md) for details.

## About Timescale

> Timescale is a PostgreSQL database company. To learn more, visit [timescale.com](https://www.timescale.com).

Reviewer 2: Use the same text at https://github.com/timescale/pgai/blob/main/README.md#about-timescale ?

> Timescale is a PostgreSQL database company. To learn more, visit [timescale.com](https://www.timescale.com).

Author: This is the same text as https://github.com/timescale/pgai/blob/main/README.md#about-timescale
